# Priviledged Software Horizontal Committee Charter

The Priviledged Software Horizontal Committee is chartered with defining the strategy, gap analysis, and prioritizations for all non-user mode RISC-V software as well as governing the development of specifications, software ecosystem components, and best practices for that software. RISC-V does not dictate or own software that integrates with upstream projects. Instead it develops specifications that define things like RISC-specific interfaces or extensions support and works to foster the development and integration of software into their constituent upstream projects.

This committee has four major topic areas: components, interfaces, operating systems, and platforms. Platforms are special and under the direction and guidance of the TSC to develop platform specs that enable distros to have a releases that can run on multiple implementations. Operating systems drive everything from Linux to FreeRTOS to Windows etc. also includes build systems for them (e.g. Yocto, Buildroot, Debootstrap, …). Interfaces include things like SBIs, UEFI, PCI, UCIe, *ABI, … Components consist of things like  Hypervisor, Unified DIscovery, Platform security (works with Security HC). We expects SIGs in each of the four areas to provide long term strategy, gap analysis and prioritization on behalf of the committee.

This Committee heavily interacts with all of the other committees with emphasis with the Pribiledged ISA Committee and the Security and SOC Horizontal committees.
